LHL Node Skeleton
=========

## Project Setup

The following steps are only for _one_ of the group members to perform.

1. Create your own copy of this repo using the `Use This Template` button, ideally using the name of your project. The repo should be marked Public
2. Verify that the skeleton code now shows up in your repo on GitHub, you should be automatically redirected
3. Clone your copy of the repo to your dev machine
4. Add your team members as collaborators to the project so that they can push to this repo
5. Let your team members know the repo URL so that they use the same repo (they should _not_ create a copy/fork of this repo since that will add additional workflow complexity to the project)


## Getting Started

1. Create the `.env` by using `.env.example` as a reference: `cp .env.example .env`
2. Update the .env file with your correct local information 
  - username: `labber` 
  - password: `labber` 
  - database: `midterm`
3. Install dependencies: `npm i`
4. Fix to binaries for sass: `npm rebuild node-sass`
5. Reset database: `npm run db:reset`
  - Check the db folder to see what gets created and seeded in the SDB
7. Run the server: `npm run local`
  - Note: nodemon is used, so you should not have to restart your server
8. Visit `http://localhost:8080/`

## Warnings & Tips

- Do not edit the `layout.css` file directly, it is auto-generated by `layout.scss`
- Split routes into their own resource-based file names, as demonstrated with `users.js` and `widgets.js`
- Split database schema (table definitions) and seeds (inserts) into separate files, one per table. See `db` folder for pre-populated examples. 
- Use the `npm run db:reset` command each time there is a change to the database schema or seeds. 
  - It runs through each of the files, in order, and executes them against the database. 
  - Note: you will lose all newly created (test) data each time this is run, since the schema files will tend to `DROP` the tables and recreate them.

## Dependencies

- Node 10.x or above
- NPM 5.x or above
- PG 6.x

### User Stories

- A _user story_ describes how users will interact with your application
- They have the form: As a ______, I want to ______, because ______.

BREAD

BROWSE - As a user, I want to be able to browse featured items, because I want to know what         is featured today.
As a user, I want to be able to search with parameters because I only like cats.

READ - As a user, I want to be able to look at a specific item to see its details.

EDIT - As an admin, I want to be able to edit previous posts because I might have new info or make a mistake.
As an admin, I want to be able to mark items as sold when they are sold because they are sold.

ADD - As an admin, I want to be able to add new listings.
As a user, I want to be able to favourite listings that i am interested in.
As a user or admin, I want to be able to message other users or admins to ask about listings, on site or on email/text.

DELETE As an admin, I want to be able to delete posts.


### User Scenarios
- A _user scenario_ is a syntactic alternative to user stories
- They have the form: Given _____, when ______, then ______.
- eg. Given _that I am logged in_, when _I click favourite on a post_, then _it is added to my favourites_.
- You can also chain on an _and_ to user stories/scenarios
- eg. Given _that I am logged in_, when _I click favourite on a post_, then _it is added to my favourites_ **and** _the save icon will change to indicate success_.

### ERD
- The user stories provide you with nouns (eg. user, posts, favourites)
- Use these nouns/entities to build out your database (ie. tables are the nouns from the stories)

### Routes
- Once you know the resources that you'll have, write out the routes that you'll need to perform BREAD operations on those resources
- Remember RESTful conventions (they make it much easier)

### MVP vs MVD
- There is a concept in development of an MVP, the Minimum Viable Product
- An MVP has just enough features to be useful to a user
- This concept helps streamline the development process and help keep the team on target
- For mid-terms, we want to focus on the MVD, the Minimum Viable Demo
- **If you aren't going to demo it, don't build it**

### Wireframes
- Draw out the structure of your web pages
- This will make it much easier to build out these pages later
- This is also a great opportunity to get input from all of the team members
- Design matters... however you are a developer, not a designer
- Get inspiration from websites you visit

### Tech Choices
- We have made all the tech choices for you
- Back End: Node and Express
- Front End: HTML, CSS, JS, jQuery, Bootstrap

### The Mid-term Skeleton
- Use the provided `node-skeleton` as a template for your project
- This will get you up and running quickly

### SPA vs Multi-page App
- These concepts are not mutually exclusive
- You can choose one or the other or both

### Git
- Use Git best practices (ask a mentor for clarification if you need it)
- Use branches

### DO NOT CODE ON MASTER
- I repeat, do not code on master

### Splitting up the Work
- Horizontally - whole team working on front-end or back-end at the same time
- Vertically - divide the work between front-end and back-end
- Pair Programming - working together on the same tasks

### Communication
- Make sure to communicate with your team members
- Use Slack, iMessage, Google Hangouts, whatever... just make sure that everyone is on the same page

### Deployment
- Decide if you want/need to deploy your application to the cloud
- Ask a mentor for assistance/advice if your team decides to deploy
